docs: contributing how to build (#412)
ubuntu/authd: CONTRIBUTING.md

Contributions are made to this project via Issues and Pull Requests (PRs). A few general guidelines that cover both:

> * To report security vulnerabilities, please use the advisories page of the repository and not a public bug report. Please use [launchpad private bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/authd/+filebug) which is monitored by our security team. On ubuntu machine, it’s best to use `ubuntu-bug authd` to collect relevant information. <!-- FIXME: snap? -->

Reviewer: Nit:

```suggestion
* To report security vulnerabilities, please use the advisories page of the repository and not a public bug report. Please use [launchpad private bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/authd/+filebug) which is monitored by our security team.<br />On ubuntu machine, it’s best to use `ubuntu-bug authd` to collect relevant information. <!-- FIXME: snap? -->
```

One thing, I see the `FIXME` to show up in the PR markdown rendering, not sure if will be really shown in normal blob, though.

### Required dependencies

This project has several build dependencies. You can install these dependencies from the top of the source tree using the `apt` command as follows:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt build-dep .
```

### Building and running the binaries

The project consists of the following binaries:

* `authd`: The main authentication service.

> * `pam_authd.so` and `pam_authd_exec.so`: A PAM module and its helper library.

Reviewer: The components are more:

```suggestion
* `pam_authd.so`: A PAM native module (used by GDM)
* `pam_authd_exec.so`, `authd-pam`: A PAM module and its helper executable (used by other PAM applications).
```

Note that this duality would be avoided by using #121.

Author: I wouldn't talk about the helper here. Too much details.

* `libnss_authd.so`: An NSS module.

The project can be built as a Debian package. This process will compile all the binaries, run the test suite, and produce the Debian packages.

Alternatively, for development purposes, each binary can be built manually and separately.

#### Building the Debian package from source

Building the Debian package from source is the most straightforward and standard method for compiling the binaries and running the test suite. To do this, run the following command from the top of the source tree:

> [!NOTE]
> This is required to vendorize the Rust crates and must be only done once.
> ```shell
> sudo apt install libssl-dev
> cargo install cargo-vendor-filterer

> > cargo vendor-filterer vendor_rust

Author: okay but not necessarily clearer

> > cargo vendor-filterer vendor_rust

Author: I can change to debuild, I don't mind

> > cargo vendor-filterer vendor_rust

Author: done

> ```

Then build the Debian package:

```shell
dpkg-buildpackage
```

The debian packages are available in the parent directory.

#### Building authd only

To build `authd` only, run the following command from the top of the source tree:

```shell
go build ./cmd/authd
```

The built binary will be in the current directory. The daemon can be run directly from this binary without installing it on the system.

#### Building the PAM module only

To build the PAM module, from the top of the source tree run the following commands:

> [!NOTE]
> This dependency is required to regenerate the proto files and is only needed once.
> ```shell

> > sudo apt install protoc-gen-go

Reviewer 2: you need to `cd tools/` and go install all the tooling from there too to have the grpc modules in Go hooking up in protoc. I am pretty sure that you don’t need to install the binary package after this and at least, you will be using the version we are pinning in our repo.

Author: okay, I'll change with
cd tools/
grep -o '_ ".*"' *.go | cut -d '"' -f 2 | xargs go install

Author: done

> ```

Then build the PAM module:

```shell

> go generate ./pam/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
go generate ./pam/
go build -tags pam_binary_exec -o ./pam/authd-pam ./pam
```

```

> This command will produce two binaries: `./pam/pam_authd.so` and `./pam/go-exec/pam_authd_exec.so`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will produce two libraries (`./pam/pam_authd.so` and `./pam/go-exec/pam_authd_exec.so`) and an executable (`./pam/authd-pam`).
```

>  These modules must be copied to `/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/security/pam_authd.so` and `/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/security/pam_authd_exec.so` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These modules must be copied to `/usr/lib/$(gcc -dumpmachine)/security/` while the executable must be copied to `/usr/libexec/authd-pam`.
```

Or `dpkg-architecture -qDEB_HOST_MULTIARCH` if we only care about debian-based systems.

#### Building the NSS module only

To build the NSS module, from the top of the source tree run the command:

```shell
cargo build
```

It will build a debug release of the NSS module.

> The library resulting from the build is located in `./target/debug/libnss_authd.so`. This module must be copied to `/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libnss_authd.so.2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library resulting from the build is located in `./target/debug/libnss_authd.so`. This module must be copied to `/usr/lib/$(gcc -dumpmachine)/libnss_authd.so.2`.
```
